# Trustworthy Recommender Systems

Abstract: As one of the most successful AI applications, recommender systems have been applied in various user-oriented Web services. However, recent studies indicate that recommender systems can expose their untrustworthy aspects to users and society,  such as spreading fake news to manipulate public opinion on social media sites, amplifying unfairness toward under-represented groups or individuals in job matching services,  or inferring privacy information from recommendation results. These vulnerabilities  can make unreliable recommendation results and then produce significant harmful effects in various real-world applications, such as finance and healthcare. Thus, building trustworthy recommender systems has attracted increasing attention in recent years. 

In this tutorial, we aim to provide a comprehensive overview on the recent progress of  **T**rustworthy **Rec**ommender systems (**TRec**) with a specific focus on six crucial dimensions: Safety \& Robustness, Non-discrimination \& Fairness, Explainability, Privacy, Environmental Well-being, Accountability \& Auditability. For each dimension, we introduce the basic concepts and taxonomy, then provide the summary of the latest and most representative works. Additionally, we give the potential interactions among different dimensions and possible future research directions for trustworthy recommender systems. In this way, we expect academic researchers and industrial practitioners in related fields can gain a broad overview and a deep understanding of trustworthiness in recommender systems from this tutorial so as to promote the development of technologies in recommendations.


Tutorial Homepage: https://advanced-recommender-systems.github.io/trustworthiness-tutorial/
